Financial Statistics Software
Authors: Wenxi Lei(wl1162),  Tian Wang (tw991),  Sylvia Zhao (ssz225)

A. What the program does
The program is designed to generate an interactive Financial Statistics Software GUI that 
allows users to perform statistical analyses (i.e. calculate sharpe ratio, standard deviation) 
and plot graphs for days, months, and years based on historical stock data imported from Yahoo! 
Finance, Google Finance, or local files. Users can run analyses on a single stock, a portfolio,
or data from their own local files.

B. How to run the program
Run the main.py module to start up the program (python main.py on command line or click run in eclipse). 
Users can then submit inputs and manipulate data utilizing the pop-up Financial Statistics Software GUI. 
Text results will be displayed in console and graphs will open in new pop-up window.

C. Program Inputs / Outputs
1. Basic Summary and Interactive Graphics 
	1.1.1 For local file:
	Check "Please check this box if using local data", type in Start and End 
	Dates in the format yyyy/mm/dd, and click 'Browse local file' to locate file that user would 
	like to analyze. 
	1.1.2 For a stock:
	Input valid Stock Ticker Symbol, Web Source for data (google or yahoo), and Start 
	and End Dates in the format yyyy/mm/dd. Leave "Please check this box if using local data"
	unchecked.
	1.2 To display outputs for given period:
	User may click on buttons for:
		Show Numerical Statistics to print numerical statistics
		Show Summary to print the data count, mean, standard deviation, min, max, and 
			quartiles 
		Show Graphics to display time series plot of price and barplot of volume
	Text outputs will be displayed in console.
	Plots will be displayed in pop-up windows.
	User click on points in plots generated to print the price or volume 
	at that date position.
	GUI customization: user may change background color of plots by clicking on corresponding color 
	in legend of plots.
2. Statistical Measures
	2.1 For a stock:
	Input Column Name (CASE SENSITIVE: Open, High, Low, Close, Volume) to see measures for 
	and Period as a positive integer to generate statistical measures. 
	2.2 To display outputs for given column and period:
	Input which statistical measures (sma, std, boll, macd, daily_return, sharpe ratio) 
	to generate by clicking the corresponding boxes on the GUI. Multiple selections can be 
	made at once. Then click Show Measures to display results.
3. Portfolio Management
	3.1 For a portfolio:
	Input start and end dates in yyyy/mm/dd format, list of stock ticker symbols separated by ',' 
	and list of positions separated by ',' that consist of positions less than 1 and sum up to 1.
	3.2 To display outputs for given ticker and position lists:
	Click Show Analysis button. The results shown are results from simulating the combination
	of stocks in the portfolio utilizing data from Yahoo! Finance and given 10000 as the
	initial investment.
4. To exit the program:
	Press 'Safely Exit' button.

D. Datasets and how to obtain them
Real time stock data is imported from either Yahoo! Finance or Google Finance, as specified 
by user input for Source on GUI, by using pandas remote data access (pandas.io.data).
User can also input their own local csv files via GUI by clicking 'Browse Local File', as long 
as the local file is exactly the same format as data imported from Yahoo! and Google Finance,
with the following requirements:
	1. Datetime as index
	2. Column headers are case sensitive and must include: Open, High, Low, Close, Volume
	3. Dataframe cannot be empty
	4. Data from columns under the above headers must be floating-point numbers

E. Dependencies required to run the program, and how to install them
Python 2.7: Download from https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7/
Operations System: 
	Program can be run on Linux and Windows operating systems.
		Purchase Windows at http://windows.microsoft.com/ and follow installation instructions.
		Download Ubuntu at http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop 
	Program will crash if ran on MAC.
